mlmmj-rbarchiver(1) -- Convert mlmmj MLs to an HTML archive
===========================================================

## SYNPOSIS

`mlmmj-rbarchive -i INDIR -o OUTDIR` [OPTIONS]

## DESCRIPTION

`mlmmj-rbarchive` converts an mlmmj mailinglist into a browsable HTML
archive. You can point your webserver to the resulting directory and
thereby serve it as a (public) webarchive for the mailinglist.

## USAGE

The `-i` and `-o` options are required and the program will abort if
any of them is missing. The former specifies the root directory of the
mlmmj mailinglist you want to process, whereas the latter specifies
the directory the HTML will be outputted to. To be exact, the program
will take the `archive/` subdirectory of the input directory for
processing and will output to a directory named after the processed ML
below the output directory.

## OPTIONS

* `-a EMAIL`, `--admin EMAIL`:
  Administrative Email contact.

* `-c FILE`, `--config-file FILE`:
  Configuration file to read options from. See below for
  more information on this.

* `-C DIR`, `--cachedir DIR`:
  Cache directory for storing the sorted emails. Usually this
  is set automatically to some temporary directory, but you
  can set this to a permanent directory if you want. This will
  cause the program to not regenerate the entire ML archive, but
  instead use what can be found in that cache directory, resulting
  in a faster processing, especially if the mailinglist in question
  is large.

* `-h`, `--help`:
  Display a short option summary.

* `-H HTML`, `--header HTML`:
  A short HTML snippet placed at the top of each page.
  Set this to something like `<p>My Mailinglist archive</p>`.

* `-i DIR`, `--indir DIR`:
  The mlmmj mailinglist to process. *Required*.

* `-l`, `--levels NUM`:
  Maximum indentation level before the threads are flattened.

* `-m BINARY`, `--mhonarc BINARY`:
  Path to the mhonarc(1) executable. Usually this is found out
  automatically.

* `-o DIR`, `--outdir DIR`:
  The target directory for the HTML files. *Required*.

* `-s`, `--style STRING`:
  CSS link to include in each HTML files’ `<head>` section.
  This is copied as-is, you have to provide the CSS file
  yourself.

* `-S`, `--search URL`:
  Add a link called "search" to the navigation bar that links
  to the URL specified here. Nothing more is done, you have to
  implement the target yourself.

* `-v`, `--version`:
  Print the version number and exit.

* `-V`, `--verbose`:
  Give more information while processing.

* `-x`, `--no-checknoarchive`:
  Do *not* check the `X-NoArchive` email header that instructs
  archiving software to ignore an email. Note that the default
  behaviour is to honour that header.

## CONFIGURATION FILE

The `-c` option allows you to specify a configuration file so you
don’t have to pass all the above commandline options again and
again. Instead you can set them in the file and have the program read
that file on startup. Most things specifyable via the commandline can
be set in the config file too, so I encourage you to use such a file
to keep your commands clean. The mapping of the configuration file
directives to the above commandline options is as follows:

    ┌────────────────┬────────┐
    │ Directive      │ Option │
    ├────────────────┼────────┤
    │ archiveadmin   │ -a     │
    │ cachedir       │ -c     │
    │ checknoarchive │ -x     │
    │ header         │ -H     │
    │ indir          │ -i     │
    │ mhonarc        │ -m     │
    │ outdir         │ -o     │
    │ tlevels        │ -l     │
    │ searchtarget   │ -S     │
    │ stylefile      │ -s     │
    └────────────────┴────────┘

See the example configuration file provided in the `extra/` directory
in the source for concrete usage instructions.

## EXAMPLE

Suppose you want to process the mlmmj mailinglist at
`/var/spool/mlmmj/mymailinglist` and output the HTML to the directory
`/var/www/mailarchive/mymailinglist`. This can be achieved as follows:

    $ mlmmj-rbarchive -i /var/spool/mlmmj/mymailinglist -o /var/www/mailarchive

Note you don’t have to specify the ML subdirectory, this is created
automatically for you.

The resulting directory `/var/www/mailarchive/mymailinglist` will
contain all messages sent to the ML converted to HTML. Note this does
*not* create a toplevel `index.html` file for you, so you probably
want to create one that contains information about how to
subscribe/unsubscribe from the mailinglists archived at the
website. That file will be left alone by `mlmmj-rbarchive`.

An example cron(8) entry for periodically running that command could
look like this:

    0 2 * * * mlmmj-rbarchive -i /var/spool/mymailinglist -o /var/www/mailarchive

That would run the shown command every day at 02:00 in the night.

## AUTHOR

Marvin Gülker `<quintus@quintilianus.eu>`

## SEE ALSO

mlmmj website ([http://www.mlmmj.org](http://www.mlmmj.org)), project page
([https://github.com/Quintus/mlmmj-rbarchive](https://github.com/Quintus/mlmmj-rbarchive))
